=== EBOOK - How to build your own Mud ===

== Table Of Contents

 1. Introduction
   i. What is a mud
  ii. History of muds
 2. Main object relationships
 3. Client server communication
 4. MudIO the persistence layer
 5. SomeMoney explained
 6. FightActions explained
 7. Spells and Buffs
 8. Mob Behaviour
 9. World building
10. Conclusion

== Introduction
= What is a mud

A mud or multi-user dungeon is a game in which the player takes on an avatar or character in order to play the game.
This alter ego is very much like playing a character in an RPG (Role Playing Game). In the game world players have hp or
health points to record damage against them that they receive from monsters or mobs (mobile objects) or other players.
When hp is less than zero you are killed and respawn back to the starting portal.

When you are killed your equipment and items drop onto your corpse which fell where you were killed. You then have the
task to walk back to the location to retrieve your equipment. However other players may get there first and steal your
belongings. This is allowed on a player killing mud. Or PVP mud (player verses player).

In order to move from room to room you have mv points or movement points. Depending on the terrain room type and
movement method will determine the total cost of the movement out of a room to another one. Being a fantasy game players
also have mana or mn points to cast spells with.

Hp, Mv, Mn all regenerate over time. The speed depends on what state your character is in. i.e. They will recover more
quickly if the character is sleeping. However being asleep makes you very vulnerable to attack. The game has a passage
of time every 100 milliseconds to resolve combat turns and every 15 seconds players regain a percentage of these stats.

A player advances through the game by killing mobs. Mobs on death provide xp points and a chance to find new equipment
via equipment drops. Eq or equipment when rare or powerful is known as leet equipment. One goal of the game is to
collect as much leet eq as the character can equip. Another is to reach the maximum level for the game typically level
90. Another is to collect gold and become wealth. Another is to kill as many opposite alignment players as you can and
be rating top player killer in war points. At the end of the day its all about having fun and making new friends that
are met online. In order to most efficiently xp or hunt down other players players need to get into a group and work
together. The game can be played solo but most fun is to be had from working together in teams of players.

At level 60 it is possible to remort, to increase racial stats such that strength, constitution, intelligence, dexterity
, wisdom are increased by up to 6 points. This is done at the cost of returning the character to level 1 to start over
the game but with a more powerful character. This can be done 6 times and provides the players with the repeat play
experience of returning to zones for lower level characters.

Players can group up to share xp for killing mobs or war points for killing players. However the xp is split by level
of each player to keep it fair as the higher level players are likely to be dealing out the majority of the damage.
Players can use war points to tier at there war master to receive special leet equipment.

= History of muds

TODO

==  Main object relationships

[PlayerData]
   |
[Player: (Mob) (Connection)]  /---[Equipment]
   |                         /
 [Mob: (Room) (Race) (Flags)]-----[Inventory]-----[Room (Flags)]-----[Exit]-----[Door]
   |         |          |               |*
 [Race]   [Fight]     [Prop]----------[Item (Flags)]
             |           |
          [FightAction]  [Basic Thing]
           |         |
  [BasicAttack]  [BasicSpell]
                     |
                 [Spell Effect]

  [World]

  [Commands]
       /|\
  [Enter][North][South][West][East][Up][Down][Kill]

  == How to obtain the rest of this eBook

  Firstly I have to write it. But I want to gauge interest first. Pledge 99p to me at Ivan.Stuart@gmail.com
  When I have at least 10 pledges I will go ahead with the rest of this eBook.